And this video, we look at a function for Fibonacci's kids, first of all, I will show you a charity
function that I have explained you in the previous video.
I was going to function, I will the function, the mass index parameter, and that is the item number
that we want to find out in the cities inside the function.
First of all, I will write a return zero because if you see this error message, function is having
any return date, but it is not returning anything.
So that's what data is controlled regions and of nonvote function.
So to avoid this error for timing, I will write down return zero.
Then later we'll see what we have to return.
So this threat is gone.
No, I learned on the function, I've taken some variables like easy to initialize with the zero and
even initialized with one.
And as for finding some and also we need variable ifour for loop that the very first thing inside a
function is if and is less than or equal to one, then return same number and.
Otherwise, we'll find out the term using follow ups, so follow will start I from two onwards and I
reaches less than a week or two and then I switched.
So it will start from two and reaches up to the total number and the Tom.
So every time we have to.
Find out some that is by adding zero, and even then, DS3 should get the value of four to one and B
one should get the value of something that is new that we have obtained by repeating this loop for end
times.
So we get the result in s.
So then lots of statements should be written as earlier I wrote it at zero to avoid error return.
S here.
I'm getting a warning that s may be only initialized when used here.
If it doesn't enter into for loop s will not be modified and the US is having some garbage value.
So let us initialize as with the Zettl.
So this warning will be gone.
Will not get any wrong answers due to this.
But to avoid this one I have just initialize Esposito not inside mean function.
I will directly print the result obtained by that function, but it's entirely and new line.
Then I will call the function fizbo but passing then that's OK.
So now the whole program is ready.
I will run the program.
Yes, 22 as 55, let us see, 50, Tom answered is five for 50, Tom.
Yes, the fifth item is five, then six, the term is eight.
Let us try that also.
Yes, I got the result, eight search for perfect normal right recursive function for finding Fibonacci
Dom, let me call the function name are Fab Four recursive then parameters.
And that is the term number, as we have already seen the code if and as less than or equal to one then.
Written and itself, otherwise written are of and the minus two plus are of an A minus one, that's
all.
The function is so simple because it's recursive, it has finished in just two lines.
Instead of calling a fib, I will call r fib here inside the main function.
Now let us run program and see what the output is for this.
It should get eight.
Yes, our afterwards was also giving eight.
Not to reduce this number of calls we have seen memorisation, so I will write on a function using memorisation,
so already I have one function that is a utility function called then recursive function for Fibonacci.
Then next I will write a memoir position function for Fibonacci.
For memorisation function, we need one global F, so I will take the array size as a 10 limited size
if you want larger.
You can take it.
And inside the main function, I will first initialize this array.
Using for a loop, I will initialise, for I signed zero, I use less than 10 I plus plus I remember
the array should be initialized with minus one.
So all these locations, I will fill them with minus one because zero is also if you will not see Tom.
So we should have the Tom.
So you should have a number, not a Fibonacci tone.
So minus one is not a Fibonacci term.
So I have initialized this array with minus one.
Now here I will write on memorisation function.
That is a function for finding Fibonacci dom using memorisation integer is the return type.
So I will call the function Ima's moussab for memorisation then it sticking dom number and as parameter
fustiness if any, is less than or equal to one then in as of an assignment itself.
And also right on and so these are two statements inside if condition, so I will write them in flowback
at.
So this is the body of.
Then else, if the number is greater than one, then check if that's of any minus two is equals to minus
one.
If it is equal to minus one, then call em Saib of A..
Minus to call this function.
And whatever the result we obtain, take it in F off and the minus two.
So I'm writing in a single line.
I will take it in the next line then next one again four and the minus one.
Also I have to check it.
If F of and minus one is equal to minus one then call the function for and minus one and take its result
and F of and minus one.
So call method of and minus one.
Once we got this result, whether the function is called or not call we get the results here then return.
And fourth and minus two, plus F off and minus one, because the results are kept in a global area
F, so that's all it is, a function using memorization.
So F is a global area that will help this function to store the results of the function to avoid excessive
costs.
Now, here inside main function is of calling Ares, I will call em Fab Four or five and I should get
the result.
That's five.
I have deleted the breakpoint now let us run the program.
Yes, the answer is five, if we call it four, six, then let us see.
Aid, it's looking now, will put a break point and debug the function, so you have to count how many
function calls it is making for value.
Five, it should make six calls.
I have made the value as five.
So it should make total six calls, run the program.
So it has game on this printer function.
So you have to watch this watch window and debug navigation to count the number of calls it is making.
Let us stop.
First call value of an EF five.
Second, gold value of an as a three, so here you can see the value of an industry and here at this
place you can see there are two calls.
So in the previous call, it is in this statement Cedar's and this statement.
So to call so far then, for three, 2013 Seidel's blog, then again, it is going to call itself for
one, that is three minus two.
So this is the third call for one.
This conditional statement will be true and it will come out of the function after excluding this safe
block.
So we are on the third call.
Third call has finish back on the second call.
Now it is entering into second if part of this one.
So it will make a call for and minus one that is three is that is and is a three to three minus one
too.
So for two it is a fourth call.
For two, it will enter into its part.
Then first if fifth call.
Then second, if.
It has kept because already the value of one is found so total five calls so far, then back on three.
So it is making a second, but so far three this it has finished now is going to call this one.
So already for of two is known.
So it doesn't make a call then back on five.
No second part.
A five.
Now, it is the sixth call for four and four for already feeble four, two was known, that is four
minus two.
So that's why it didn't call this one the next.
Again, this four three, although that is four minus one is a three so far.
This also devalues.
No, I did not call this one.
So total six calls so far.
Now from forward it will come out.
See it has not expanded the function call with four because all the values were found on back on 5th.
That is value five.
So it is the first call and it will terminate.
So total calls are six, only six calls it has made and got the result.
And if I expand this Fibonacci array, you can see that the values are filled in this one zero one one,
two, three, four, four and five.
The values are not there because one thing I have missed here that is inside this before returning the
result, I should fill up the value that is fizbo and should be filled with five of and the minus two
plus five of and the minus one.
Now let us run the program once again and see how the value of global RF are changing.
You can see that the global array is all filled with minus one, if I continue execution, see first
if one is found.
Then EF zero is found.
Then ever to as one now.
F of is to.
I for forty three, then four, five years, five that fall, so this is how the values are being stored
and global, and if so, that's all in this video.
We have seen three different versions of Fibonacci function.
One is iterative version and recursive function, and the third one was recursive function with memorization
to avoid excessive calls.